Robert Douglas Thomas Pattinson (born 13 May 1986) is an English actor, producer, model, and musician. He started his film career by playing Cedric Diggory in Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, a 2005 fantasy film. He later got the leading role of vampire Edward Cullen in the film adaptations of the Twilight novels by Stephenie Meyer, which consisted of five films between 2008 and 2012 that combined grossed over $3.3 billion in worldwide receipts. Twilight brought Pattinson worldwide fame, and established him among the highest paid and most bankable actors in Hollywood. In 2010, Pattinson was named one of TIME magazine's 100 most influential people in the world, and also in the same year Forbes ranked him as one of the most powerful celebrities in the world in the Forbes Celebrity 100.In 2009, he portrayed Salvador Dal¨ª in Little Ashes. That same year, a documentary film, Robsessed, about the actor's fame and popularity, was released. He appeared as a troubled young man in Remember Me (2010) and also starred in a romantic drama, Water for Elephants (2011). His performance as a tough, cold-hearted and calculating billionaire in David Cronenberg's Cosmopolis (2012), earned him critical praise. He gained further critical appreciation for his performances in David Michod's futuristic western The Rover (2014); in Cronenberg's satire drama Maps to the Stars (2014); in James Gray's The Lost City of Z (2017), as an aide-de-camp to an explorer who disappeared in the Amazon while looking for an ancient city; and in the Safdie Brs' Good Time (2017).Pattinson started his career as a model at the age of 12. In 2013, Dior Homme signed him as the face of their Fragrances. In 2016, he also became the first brand ambassador of their Menswear collection. Pattinson composes and plays his own music. He sang songs for the Twilight film series and the 2008 independent comedy-drama film How to Be. He is a supporter of End Child Prostitution, Child Pornography, and Trafficking of Children for Sexual Purposes (ECPAT), Parents and Abducted Children Together (PACT), and the GO Campaign, a nonprofit organization that raises awareness and funds to help orphans and vulnerable children throughout the world. He became ambassador of the latter in 2015 to help raise international awareness of it. He is also a member of International Medical Corps and has promoted and shared details about cancer through PSAs to raise awareness about the disease.