Hugh John Mungo Grant (born 9 September 1960) is an English actor and film producer. Grant has received a Golden Globe, a BAFTA, and an Honorary C¨¦sar for his work. His films have earned more than US$2.4billion from 25theatrical releases worldwide. Grant first received attention after earning the Volpi Cup for his performance in James Ivory's Maurice (1987) but achieved international success after appearing in the Richard Curtis-scripted Four Weddings and a Funeral (1994). Grant used this breakthrough role as a frequent cinematic persona during the 1990s, delivering comic performances in films such as Mickey Blue Eyes (1999) and Notting Hill (1999). One of the best known figures in 1990s British popular culture, Grant was in a high-profile relationship with Elizabeth Hurley, which was the focus of much attention in the British and international media.By the turn of the 21st century, Grant had established himself as a leading man, skilled with a satirical comic talent. Grant has expanded his oeuvre with critically acclaimed turns as a cad in Bridget Jones's Diary (2001), About a Boy (2002), and American Dreamz (2006). Grant later played against type with multiple roles in the epic sci-fi drama film, Cloud Atlas (2012). He is also known for appearing in period pieces such as The Remains of the Day (1993), Sense and Sensibility (1995) and Florence Foster Jenkins (2016). In 2017, Grant starred as Phoenix Buchanan, a narcissist actor and antagonist in Paddington 2, which the film and Grant received critical acclaim.Within the film industry, Grant is cited as an anti-star who approaches his roles like a character actor, and attempts to make his acting appear spontaneous. Hallmarks of his comic skills include a nonchalant touch of irony/sarcasm and studied physical mannerisms, as well as his precisely timed dialogue delivery and facial expressions. The entertainment media's coverage of Grant's life off the big screen has often overshadowed his work as an actor. Grant has been outspoken about his antipathy towards the profession of acting and in his disdain towards the culture of celebrity and hostility towards the media. In a career spanning 30years, Grant has repeatedly claimed that acting was not his true calling but rather a career that developed by happenstance.