Nicholas Caradoc Hoult (born 7 December 1989 in Wokingham, Berkshire) is an English actor. Drawn to acting from a young age, he appeared in Wokingham-based theatre productions as a child. He made his screen debut at the age of seven in the 1996 film Intimate Relations, and appeared in several television programmes between 1998 and 2001. Hoult's breakthrough role was Marcus Brewer in the 2002 comedy drama film About a Boy, for which he was nominated for the Critics' Choice Movie Award for Best Young Performer. Although he initially wanted to study English, Hoult chose to pursue a career in acting and briefly attended the Sylvia Young Theatre School.Hoult received wide recognition for his portrayal of Tony Stonem in the E4 teenage-drama series Skins. Although dismissive of his character, he garnered praise and a nomination for Golden Nymph Award for his performance. His transition to adult roles began with the 2009 drama film A Single Man, for which he earned a BAFTA Rising Star Award. Hoult's role in the 2010 fantasy adventure film Clash of the Titans was also well received. He was cast as the mutant Beast in Matthew Vaughn's 2011 superhero film X-Men: First Class, a role he reprised in later installments of the series; as of 2018[update], his role in the $747 million-grossing X-Men: Days of Future Past (2014)！his second production in the franchise！has been his greatest commercial success to date.Hoult's continued associations with big-budget productions have yielded varying results. He played Jack in the 2013 film Jack the Giant Slayer, which was a box office bomb, while the 2015 film Mad Max: Fury Road in which he played Nux was a blockbuster. Hoult has recently turned to starring roles！mostly in independent films！including three of his 2017 roles; the romantic drama Newness and the biographical films Rebel in the Rye and The Current War, in which he played J. D. Salinger and Nikola Tesla, respectively. Outside film, he voiced Elliot in Lionhead Studios' 2010 action role-playing game Fable III, appeared in theatrical productions including the 2009 West End play New Boy, and is involved in philanthropy, supporting such charitable organisations as Teenage Cancer Trust and Christian Aid.